---
title: "Upgrading to DefectDojo Version 1.7.0"
toc_hide: true
weight: -20200700
description: multiple instructions
exclude_search: true
---
**What\'s New:**

-   Updated search, you can now search for CVE-XXXX-YYYY
-   Updated search index, fields added to index: \'id\', \'title\',
    \'cve\', \'url\', \'severity\', \'description\', \'mitigation\',
    \'impact\', \'steps\_to\_reproduce\', \'severity\_justification\',
    \'references\', \'sourcefilepath\', \'sourcefile\', \'hash\_code\',
    \'file\_path\', \'component\_name\', \'component\_version\',
    \'unique\_id\_from\_tool\'

This requires a (one-time) rebuild of the Django-Watson search index.
Execute the django command from the defect dojo installation directory:

`./manage.py buildwatson dojo.Finding`

If you\'re using docker:

`docker-compose exec uwsgi ./manage.py buildwatson dojo.Finding`

Upgrading to DefectDojo Version 1.5.0
-------------------------------------

**What\'s New:**

-   Updated UI with a new DefectDojo logo, default colors and CSS.
-   Updated Product views with tabs for Product Overview, Metrics,
    Engagements, Endpoints, Benchmarks (ASVS), and Settings to make it
    easier to navigate and manage your products.
-   New Product Information fields: Regulations, Criticality, Platform,
    Lifecycle, Origin, User Records, Revenue, External Audience,
    Internet Accessible
-   Languages pie chart on product overview, only supported through the
    API and Django admin, integrates with cloc analyzer
-   New Engagement type of CI/CD to support continual testing
-   Engagement shortcuts and ability to import findings and auto-create
    an engagement
-   Engagement labels for overdue, no tests and findings
-   New Contextual menus throughout DefectDojo and shortcuts to new
    findings and critical findings
-   Ability to merge a finding into a parent finding and either
    inactivate or delete the merged findings.
-   Report improvements and styling adjustment with the default option
    of HTML reports
-   SLA for remediation of severities based on finding criticality, for
    example critical findings remediated within 7 days. Configurable in
    System Settings.
-   Engagement Auto-Close Days in System Settings. Automatically close
    an engagement if open past the end date.
-   Ability to apply remediation advice based on CWE. For example XSS
    can be configured as a template so that it\'s consistent across all
    findings. Enabled in system settings.
-   Finding confidence field supported from scanners. First
    implementation in the Burp importer.
-   Goast importer for static analysis of Golang products
-   Celery status check on System Settings
-   Beta rules framework release for modifying findings on the fly
-   DefectDojo 2.0 API with Swagger support
-   Created and Modified fields on all major tables
-   Various bug fixes reported on Github

**Upgrading to 1.5.0 requirements:**

1.  Back up your database first, ideally take the backup from production
    and test the upgrade on a staging server.
2.  Edit the settings.py file which can be found in
    `django-DefectDojo/dojo/settings/settings.py`. Copy in the rest
    framework configuration after the CSRF\_COOKIE\_SECURE = True:

        REST_FRAMEWORK = {
            'DEFAULT_AUTHENTICATION_CLASSES': (
                'rest_framework.authentication.TokenAuthentication',
                'rest_framework.authentication.BasicAuthentication',
            ),
            'DEFAULT_PERMISSION_CLASSES': (
                'rest_framework.permissions.DjangoModelPermissions',
            ),
            'DEFAULT_RENDERER_CLASSES': (
                'rest_framework.renderers.JSONRenderer',
            ),
            'DEFAULT_PAGINATION_CLASS': 'rest_framework.pagination.LimitOffsetPagination',
            'PAGE_SIZE': 25
        }

Navigate to: LOGIN\_EXEMPT\_URLS and add the following after
r\'\^%sfinding/image/(?P\<token\>\[\^/\]+)\$\' % URL\_PREFIX:

    r'^%sfinding/image/(?P<token>[^/]+)$' % URL_PREFIX,
    r'^%sapi/v2/' % URL_PREFIX,

Navigate to: INSTALLED\_APPS and add the following after:
\'multiselectfield\',:

    'multiselectfield',
    'rest_framework',
    'rest_framework.authtoken',
    'rest_framework_swagger',
    'dbbackup',

Navigate to: CELERY\_TASK\_IGNORE\_RESULT = True and add the following
after CELERY\_TASK\_IGNORE\_RESULT line:

    CELERY_RESULT_BACKEND = 'db+sqlite:///dojo.celeryresults.sqlite'

Save your modified settings file. For reference the modified file should
look like the new 1.5.0
\[settings\](<https://github.com/DefectDojo/django-DefectDojo/blob/master/dojo/settings/settings.dist.py>)
file, minus the environmental configurations. As an alternative this
file can be used and the enviromental configurations from you
environment can be copied into this file.

3.  Activate your virtual environment and then upgrade the requirements:

`pip install -r requirements.txt --upgrade`

4.  Upgrade the database:

        ./manage.py makemigrations
        ./manage.py migrate

5.  Collect the static files (Javascript, Images, CSS):

        ./manage.py collectstatic --noinput

6.  Complete
