---
title: 'Upgrading to DefectDojo Version 2.43.x'
toc_hide: true
weight: -20250106
description: Disclaimer field renamed/split, removal of `dc-` scripts, audit log updates, and hash codes updates.
---

### Audit log migration

As part of the upgrade to django-auditlog 3.x, there is a migration of
existing records from json-text to json. Depending on the number of
LogEntry objects in your database, this migration could take a long time
to fully execute. If you believe this period of time will be disruptive
to your operations, please consult the [migration guide](https://django-auditlog.readthedocs.io/en/latest/upgrade.html#upgrading-to-version-3)
for making this migration a two step process.

---

### Removal of "dc" helper scripts

In the past, when DefectDojo supported different database and message brokers, `dc-` scripts have been added to simplify start of Dojo stack. As these backends are not supported, mentioned scripts are not needed anymore. From now we recommend to use standard `docker compose` (or `docker-compose`) commands as they are described on [README.md](https://github.com/DefectDojo/django-DefectDojo/blob/master/README.md)

---

### Diversification of Disclaimers

[Pull request #10902](https://github.com/DefectDojo/django-DefectDojo/pull/10902) introduced different kinds of disclaimers within the DefectDojo instance. The original content of the disclaimer was copied to all new fields where it had been used until now (so this change does not require any action on the user's side). However, if users were managing the original disclaimer via API (endpoint `/api/v2/system_settings/1/`, field `disclaimer`), be aware that the fields are now called `disclaimer_notifications` and `disclaimer_reports` (plus there is one additional, previously unused field called `disclaimer_notes`).

---

### Hash Code changes

The Rusty Hog parser has been [updated](https://github.com/DefectDojo/django-DefectDojo/pull/11433) to populate more fields. Some of these fields are part of the hash code calculation. To recalculate the hash code and deduplicate existing Rusty Hog findings, please execute the following command:

    `docker compose exec uwsgi /bin/bash -c "python manage.py dedupe.py --parser "Essex Hog Scan (Rusty Hog Scan)" --hash_code_only`
    `docker compose exec uwsgi /bin/bash -c "python manage.py dedupe.py --parser "Essex Hog Scan (Choctaw Hog)" --hash_code_only`
    `docker compose exec uwsgi /bin/bash -c "python manage.py dedupe.py --parser "Essex Hog Scan (Duroc Hog)" --hash_code_only`
    `docker compose exec uwsgi /bin/bash -c "python manage.py dedupe.py --parser "Essex Hog Scan (Gottingen Hog)" --hash_code_only`
    `docker compose exec uwsgi /bin/bash -c "python manage.py dedupe.py --parser "Essex Hog Scan (Essex Hog)" --hash_code_only`

This command has various command line arguments to tweak its behaviour, for example to trigger a run of the deduplication process.
See [dedupe.py](https://github.com/DefectDojo/django-DefectDojo/blob/master/dojo/management/commands/dedupe.py) for more information.

Check the [Release Notes](https://github.com/DefectDojo/django-DefectDojo/releases/tag/2.43.0) for the contents of the release.
