---
title: 'Upgrading to DefectDojo Version 2.46.x'
toc_hide: true
weight: -20250407
description: Tag Formatting Changes + Import Payload Changes
---


## Tag Formatting Update

Tags can no longer contain the following characters:

- **Commas (,)**
- **Quotations** (both single `'` and double `"`)
- **Spaces**

#### Automatic Migration

To ensure a smooth transition, an automatic migration will be applied to existing tags as follows:

- **Commas** → Replaced with **hyphens (`-`)**
- **Quotations** (single and double) → **Removed**
- **Spaces** → Replaced with **underscores (`_`)**

#### Examples

- `example,tag` → `example-tag`
- `'SingleQuoted'` → `SingleQuoted`
- `"DoubleQuoted"` → `DoubleQuoted`
- `space separated tag` → `space_separated_tag`

#### Why This Change?

This update improves consistency, enhances search capabilities, and aligns with best practices for tag formatting.

#### Recommended Actions

We recommend reviewing your current tags, specifically CI/CD processes before upgrading to ensure they align with the new format. Performing a database backup is also suggested as this migration cannot be reverted.

Following the deployment of these new behaviors, requests sent to the API or through the UI with any of the violations listed above will result in an error, with the details of the error raised in the response.


## Feature Removal
The `DD_SLA_BUSINESS_DAYS` flag was no longer working and has been removed to avoid confusion.
If it returns, it will probably be part of the SLA Configuration settings in the UI.
There are currently no plans to reimplemnt this feature.
Please follow [11833](https://github.com/DefectDojo/django-DefectDojo/issues/11833) for updates.

---

### Asynchronous Import Feature Removal in 2.47.0

Please note that asynchronous import is already deprecated and will be removed in version 2.47.0. If you haven't migrated from this feature yet, we recommend doing so.

### Import / Reimport Statistics Delta

Following a successful import or reimport, a JSON blob for `statistics` is generated to provide the differential of finding activity.
There was a section in the `delta` JSON blob that referred to a key labeled `left untouched`. This value does not comply with REST
norms, and has been renamed to `untouched`. Here is a before and after to make it clear:

Before:

    "statistics": {
        "before": {},
        "delta": {
        "created": {},
        "closed": {},
        "reactivated": {},
        "left untouched": {}
        },
        "after": {}
    }

After:

    "statistics": {
        "before": {},
        "delta": {
        "created": {},
        "closed": {},
        "reactivated": {},
        "untouched": {}
        },
        "after": {}
    }

---

Check the [Release Notes](https://github.com/DefectDojo/django-DefectDojo/releases/tag/2.46.0) for the contents of the release.

