docs/content/en/open_source/upgrading/2.46.md, before:

---
title: 'Upgrading to DefectDojo Version 2.46.x'
toc_hide: true
weight: -20250407
description: Import Payload Changes
---

### Import / Reimport Statistics Delta

Following a successful import or reimport, a JSON blob for `statistics` is generated to provide the differential of finding activity.
There was a section in the `delta` JSON blob that referred to a key labeled `left untouched`. This value does not comply with REST
norms, and has been renamed to `untouched`. Here is a before and after to make it clear:

Before:

    "statistics": {
        "before": {},
        "delta": {
        "created": {},
        "closed": {},
        "reactivated": {},
        "left untouched": {}
        },
        "after": {}
    }

After:

    "statistics": {
        "before": {},
        "delta": {
        "created": {},
        "closed": {},
        "reactivated": {},
        "untouched": {}
        },
        "after": {}
    }

---

Check the [Release Notes](https://github.com/DefectDojo/django-DefectDojo/releases/tag/2.46.0) for the contents of the release.

Commit message:

Deprecation notification about async import

docs/content/en/open_source/upgrading/2.46.md, after:

---
title: 'Upgrading to DefectDojo Version 2.46.x'
toc_hide: true
weight: -20250407
description: Import Payload Changes
---

### Asynchronous Import deprecation in 2.47.0

Please note that asynchronous import is already deprecated and will be removed in version 2.47.0. If you haven't migrated from this feature yet, we recommend doing so.

### Import / Reimport Statistics Delta

Following a successful import or reimport, a JSON blob for `statistics` is generated to provide the differential of finding activity.
There was a section in the `delta` JSON blob that referred to a key labeled `left untouched`. This value does not comply with REST
norms, and has been renamed to `untouched`. Here is a before and after to make it clear:

Before:

    "statistics": {
        "before": {},
        "delta": {
        "created": {},
        "closed": {},
        "reactivated": {},
        "left untouched": {}
        },
        "after": {}
    }

After:

    "statistics": {
        "before": {},
        "delta": {
        "created": {},
        "closed": {},
        "reactivated": {},
        "untouched": {}
        },
        "after": {}
    }

---

Check the [Release Notes](https://github.com/DefectDojo/django-DefectDojo/releases/tag/2.46.0) for the contents of the release.
